Readme revamp (#90)
r-lib/pak: README.Rmd

[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/r-lib/pak/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/r-lib/pak?branch=master)
<!-- badges: end -->

> pak installs R packages from various sources. It is a replacement for

Reviewer: Maybe 'an alternative' rather than replacement
```suggestion
pak installs R packages from various sources. It is an alternative to
```

> pak installs R packages from various sources. It is a replacement for

Reviewer 2: I think you could spell out it here: pak installs R packages from CRAN, Bioconductor, GitHub, and ...

`install.packages()` and `devtools::install_github()`.
pak is fast, safe and convenient.

<p align="center">
	<img width="1000" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/r-lib/pak@readme/tools/images/install-2.svg">
</p>

## Installation

Install the package from CRAN:

```r
install.packages("pak")
pak::pak_create_private_lib()
```

The second line creates pak's own package library, to avoid interference

> between pak's dependencies and the user's regular packages.

Reviewer 3: So, if someone fails to do this -- run `pak::pak_create_private_lib()` after install -- will pak let them know it's needed upon first use?

I feel like you could use even clearer wording somewhere, maybe here, that this design gives pak its own ... "oxygen supply", like a pilot on a plane or something. Is there a better metaphor? This eliminates a whole category of package installation headaches. I would make an explicit mention of the known gotchas with corrupt installs on Windows. Right now the connection is pretty subtle and some people might miss it.

Author: > will pak let them know it's needed upon first use?

Then pak runs it automatically.

I agree we could elaborate this, but maybe the README is not the best place for it? I'll also start writing a vignette, maybe there?

Reviewer 3: If it's run automatically, do we even need to mention it here then?

That is, instead of mentioning here and elaborating in vignette, maybe do it the other way around.

Author: > If it's run automatically, do we even need to mention it here then?

It is run automatically, but it is good to run it straight after installation, because then pak can just copy its dependencies from the regular library, they must be available locally. Otherwise if they are not available locallt, pak will try to download them, and that can go wrong.

It is likely that we'll need to fine-tune how the private library is created, so I don't really want to go into the details here.  If they run it after installation, that's good. If they don't that's probably OK as well.

I think i'll rename this to `pak_setup()`, that is less scary, and remove it  from here.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, `pak_setup()` would be much better. And I think you could mention it parenthetically, i.e. "(You might also want to run `pak::pak_setup()`; it'll be run automatically when needed but you might want to do it now to save some time later)"

## Usage

> Simply call `pkg_install()` to install CRAN or BioConductor packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply call `pkg_install()` to install CRAN or Bioconductor packages:
```

> Simply call `pkg_install()` to install CRAN or BioConductor packages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call `pkg_install()` to install CRAN or BioConductor packages:
```

```r
pak::pkg_install("usethis")
```

> To install GitHub packages, use the `user/repo` syntax:

Reviewer 3: This is where the traditional "what about GitLab/Bitbucket" questions will come. I'd mention the support for that (or lack thereof) once, somewhere.

Author: They are coming soon, hopefully, so maybe not worth making a big deal?

Reviewer 3: Sure. I just want to be on record as predicting the question 😄

Author: Maybe I'll just add them quickly, they are easy, anyway....

Author: I addd a Roadmap section where I mention other remote types.

```r
pak::pkg_install("r-lib/usethis")
```

All dependencies will be installed as well, to the same library.

## Why pak?

### Fast

* Fast downloads and HTTP queries. pak performs all HTTP requests
  concurrently.

* Fast installs. pak builds and installs packages concurrently.

* Metadata and package cache. pak caches package metadata and all downloaded
  packages locally. It does not download the same package files over and
  over again.

> * Lazy installation. pak only installs the packages that are really needed

Reviewer: maybe 'really necessary for the installation'?

  to be installed. If the requested package and its dependencies are
  already installed, pak does nothing.

### Safe

* Private library (pak's own package dependencies do not affect your
  regular package libraries and vice versa).

* Dependency solver. pak makes sure that you end up in a consistent, working

>   state of dependencies. It finds conflicts up front, before actually

Reviewer: Maybe

If finds conflicts up front, before attempting installation.

  installing anything. pak fixes installations, i.e. if a downsteam

>   dependency is missing, it installs it, even if the requested package is

Reviewer: I don't actually understand this example, could it be clarified or made more concrete?

Author: usethis (recursively) depends on mime. If you say `pkg_install("usethis")` and usethis is already installed, but mime is not, it will install mime only.

Author: But yeah, if you don't get it, I need to explain it better. Or remove it....

Author: Thanks, BTW!

Reviewer 3: I understood it, but mostly because I watched the gif really carefully first.

  already installed.

> * pak avoids loading packages from your regular package libraries.

Reviewer 3: I would hoist the "every pak operation runs in a sub-process" to the front here. Because that's really how it attacks the problem with updating loaded packages.

Author: OK, makes sense.

  These package files would be locked on some systems, and locked packages
  cannot be updated. pak does not load any package in the main process
  (except for pak itself). Every pak operation runs in a sub-process, and
  the packages are loaded from the private library.

* To avoid updating locked packages, pak warns and requests confirmation
  for loaded packages.

### Convenient

> * BioC packages. pak supports BioConductor packages out of the box. It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* BioC packages. pak supports Bioconductor packages out of the box. It
```

>   uses the BioConductor version that is appropriate for your R version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  uses the Bioconductor version that is appropriate for your R version.
```

* GitHub packages. pak supports GitHub packages out of the box. It also

>   supports the `Remotes` entry in `DESCRIPTION` files (see e.g.

Reviewer 2: so that GitHub dependencies of GitHub packages will also get installed.
